clarify the scope of a NEW_TOKEN token (#3156)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

It is unlikely that the client port number is the same on two different
connections; validating the port is therefore unlikely to be successful.

A token received in a NEW_TOKEN frame is applicable to any server that the
connection is considered authoritative for (e.g., server names included in the
certificate).  When connecting to a server for which the client retains an
applicable and unused token, it SHOULD include that token in the Token field of
its Initial packet.  Including a token might allow the server to validate the
client address without an additional round trip.  A client MUST NOT include a

> token that is unapplicable to the server that it is connecting to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
token that is not applicable to the server that it is connecting to.
```

> token that is not applicable to the server that it is connecting to.

Reviewer 2: What happens if it does anyway?

Author: We have a normative text below, suggesting that says: _if the token is invalid then the server SHOULD proceed as if the client did not have a validated address, including potentially sending a Retry._

It is unlikely that the client port number is the same on two different
connections; validating the port is therefore unlikely to be successful.

> A token received in a NEW_TOKEN frame is applicable against the servers that the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A token received in a NEW_TOKEN frame is applicable to any server that the
```

connection is considered authoritative for (e.g., server names included in the

> certificate).  A client MUST only use a token that is applicable to the server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certificate).  A client SHOULD only use a token that is applicable to the server
```

We don't need to prevent a client from using a token from one server on a completely different one.  That won't *work*, but the server needs to protect itself against outdated tokens and attack, so they shouldn't outright reject the connection.

Author: I thought you had an argument that we need a prohibition here; see https://github.com/quicwg/base-drafts/issues/3155#issuecomment-546789506.

Reviewer: I don't remember making that argument, but I guess I could have said that.

The particular "attack" requires having a server privileged or capable enough to recognize a token from a different server with a fair degree of confidence.  For NEW_TOKEN, I can maybe see how that would happen though.  I'm OK with a MUST.

Author: @martinthomson FWIW I think the attack you were discussing was something different, that works even if the tokens were perfectly encrypted.

Consider the case where an attacker is an ISP and also controls example.com, which is hosted behind the large-scale load balancer hosted by a different entity (e.g., CDN). The attacker issues tokens when clients connect to example.com through the load balancer (IP address 192.0.2.1). Then, when the clients connect to different hostnames under the same load balancer (IP address 192.0.2.1), it can (as an ISP) see which exact clients went for which exact server-names.

I think you pointing out this attack has effectively killed https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-kazuho-quic-address-bound-token/, I appreciate that. But if it is the case that you think it's an attack we can ignore, I'm happy to revive the draft :-)

that the client is connecting to to.  If the client has a token received in a

> NEW_TOKEN frame that is applicable to a new connection attempt, it SHOULD

Reviewer: Rephrase:

A client SHOULD use an applicable and previously unused token when connecting to a server.  Including a token in an Initial packet could allow the server to validate the client address without an additional round trip.

Author: Thank you for the suggestion. I believe the intent here is to recommend the use of tokens when appropriate; hence went with e67d713.

It is unlikely that the client port number is the same on two different
connections; validating the port is therefore unlikely to be successful.

A token received in a NEW_TOKEN frame is applicable to any server that the
connection is considered authoritative for (e.g., server names included in the
certificate).  When connecting to a server for which the client retains an
applicable and unused token, it SHOULD include that token in the Token field of
its Initial packet.  Including a token might allow the server to validate the
client address without an additional round trip.  A client MUST NOT include a
token that is not applicable to the server that it is connecting to, unless the
client has the knowledge that the server that issued the token and the server
the client is connecting to are jointly managing the tokens.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it needs to be clarified that at a token SHOULD not include a token instead of MUST not. It is easy to imagine cases where the client has a strong belief, which is ultimately wrong. Having a MUST here is too strong a burden to place on the client which does not construct the token. Rather, a server MUST not accept a token that a client incorrect submits.

Author: > Having a MUST here is too strong a burden to place on the client which does not construct the token. Rather, a server MUST not accept a token that a client incorrect submits.

I am not sure if I follow your logic. This is a privacy concern. What we want to prohibit is the client sending a token to a different server identity, not the server using the token.

Reviewer 2: OK, then I have misunderstood this. Unless covered in neighbouring paragraphs I think this should be explained.

However, if the token is required to appear random and unique, why would there a privacy concern? Due to length, or because appear random is not a realistic requirement?

Author: The privacy concern is being discussed in the issue, starting from https://github.com/quicwg/base-drafts/issues/3155#issuecomment-546789506.

Reviewer 2: I see thanks, even I participated in that, too many things going on I guess.
